>> Mathew DesLauriers: So, if you guys
would all open up your terminal or
your command line application, and
we'll try and all install this together.
First thing would be to just
make sure that you have
the right version of Node and
the right version of npm.
I'm not gonna make that bigger.
It doesn't need to be six,
it can five for npm.
And then we're gonna install
the command line tool globally.
So we're gonna use npm
install canvas-sketch-cli,
which stands for command line interface,
then we can do -g or --global.
It just means let's install
the tool globally so
that we can use it again
from our command line.
And it's gonna take a little while
to install cuz it has a whole ton of
dependencies in it, and
I went kinda liberal on the dependencies.
I'm still working to make it a bit faster.
Hey what's up?
>> Speaker 2: They just need
node over Version 8, right?
>> Mathew DesLauriers: Yes,
8 or above, that's all.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And hopefully
it will all install for you guys.
And just, it might take a minute or two,
but once it installs, I think the best way
for us to test it out and to start using
it is just to go to somewhere like your
desktop or your documents and
I'm just going to go to my desktop.
I'm going to create a new
folder using rmkdir and
when we work with the Canvas Sketch tool,
we generally want
to start in an empty folder because it
will scaffold some stuff in that folder.
So I'm just gonna call it shaders, or you
can call it whatever you want, genart, or
something like that.
Maybe I'll call it genart and
then we move into the folder.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: And
here, to test the tool out,
you can just type in canvas sketch.
So the tools is canvas-sketch-cli, but
It will set you up with
a command called canvas-sketch.
When you run it without any arguments,
it's gonna give you an error,
because the idea of the tool is you
pass in a file name like sketch.js,
and it's a JavaScript file and
it will run on that file.
But because we don't have
a sketch.js file in our folder, and
I'll just open the folder here in Mac.
So you can see it's empty.
It's gonna give us an error as well.
So what we're gonna do is
we're gonna create a new file.
And if you use the flag --new,
that's gonna scaffold out
a new JavaScript file using a template for
this kinda stuff.
And then we're also gonna
use the flag --open and
that's gonna launch the browser
immediately when we do that.
So what it'll do is it's gonna write this
new file, there's a whole bunch of things.
It writes this file that
we're saying is scaffolded.
It also creates a package JSON which
is gonna hold the dependencies that our
project needs and as we go today, we're
gonna start to install more dependencies.
It has this package-lock json, which is
just gonna lock down all the versions
of our dependencies, and
has node modules, which is actually
just all the dependencies we need for
our project today.
So, if everyone could try doing that and
if there's any issues.
If you guys run into any problems,
just raise your hand.
Yep?
>> Speaker 2: Was that a NPM module?
>> Mathew DesLauriers: Yeah, so what you
can do is I'm gonna sorta restart here.
Did you run NPM install canvas-cla?
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Mathew DesLauriers: Okay, no worries.
And you'll notice that there's
this sort of server running.
It should be running on your local IP.
So you could actually type in
localhost and then 9966 in
your browser, and
you should see a sort of white box.
And it's very hard to see on this screen,
but on your own laptop,
you might notice a bit of a drop shadow.
That's basically just the border of the
canvas that we're gonna be working with.
And so what I'm gonna do is I'm gonna
open this folder up in my editor and
I'm just gonna make sure
that it's working and
that we have the development
server running properly.
>> Mathew DesLauriers: So generally when
I'm doing this kind of creative code stuff
I just I have one window which is the
browser and the other which is the editor.
And you'll see this is the file that
got created the sketch touch s file and
if you open it up in your editor and
you try changing some code like for
example changing white to red as soon
as you save it should immediately
update within the browser as well.
And you can just test that by
changing it to some other color.
This is just like a CSS color string.
And if that's all working, then you should
be getting different colors every time.